file_name: board_display.py
    functions:
        1. displayBoardAsString(board: Board())
                Purpose:
                Converts the current state of the chess board into a human-friendly string representation using Unicode symbols for the pieces and square colors, for display in a terminal.

                Inputs:
                board: a chess.Board() object from the python-chess library.

                Outputs:
                Returns a multi-line string that visually represents the board layout.

                Notes:
                Uses Unicode symbols to represent pieces.
                Uses alternating emojis ("🔲" and "⬛") to show the color of empty squares.
                Ranks (numbers) and files (letters) are labeled on all sides for clarity.
                This function does not print the board directly — it returns the string, so you can print it elsewhere or use it in logs.

        2. team(board)
                Purpose:
                Determines whose turn it currently is in the game.

                Inputs:
                board: a chess.Board() object.

                Outputs:
                Returns "White" if it is white's turn, or "Black" if it is black's turn.

                Notes:
                Simple utility function to make it easier to display to the user whose move it is.

        3. legal_move(board, move)
                Purpose:
                Checks if a given move string is a legal move in the current game state.

                Inputs:
                board: a chess.Board() object.
                move: a string representing the move in UCI format (e.g., "e2e4").
                
                Outputs:

                Returns a string message:
                If the move is legal: "Your vote was successful"
                If the move is illegal: "Illegal move: Try voting for another move!"
                If the move format is invalid: "Illegal move format: use the notation <initial position><target position> e.g. e2e3"

                Notes:
                UCI (Universal Chess Interface) format is expected.
                Uses try-except to handle invalid input formats cleanly.
               
                Important: this function only checks legality, it doesn’t apply the move

file_name: CLI_class.py
    functions:
        displayCLI(self, board)
                Purpose:
                Displays game information and instructions to the player in the terminal.

                Inputs:
                self: the instance of the class.
                board: the chess.Board() object (currently passed in but not yet used inside the function).
                
                Behavior:

                Prints:
                Total games the player has played.
                Current turn number.
                Total games won.
                Placeholder text for captured pieces (not yet implemented).
                An example move format to help players understand how to play.
                
                Notes:
                Currently, this method is informational only — it does not display the actual board state (that happens with displayBoardAsString() from your other code).
                
                Future improvements:
                You might want to track and show captured pieces.
                You could integrate this with displayBoardAsString() to show the board along with game stats.
                Dynamic player name (currently hardcoded as "Ben").

file_name: game.py
    functions:
        1. displayBoard(board)
            Purpose:
            Prints the current state of the chess board to the terminal, using Unicode symbols for pieces and colored square emojis for empty tiles.

            Inputs:
            board: a chess.Board() object.

            Behavior:

            Prints:
            Column (file) labels: A–H.
            Rank numbers: 8–1.
            Chess pieces and squares in a grid.
            Uses alternating symbols ("🔲" and "⬛") for square colors.
            Replaces chess pieces with corresponding Unicode symbols for clarity.

            Outputs:
            Prints to terminal (no return value).

        2. main()
            Purpose:
            The main function of the chess program. Sets up the game board, shows the initial state, and runs the game loop.

            Flow Summary:
            Creates a new chess board using the python-chess library.
            Displays the initial board.
            Initializes the command-line interface (CLI class).
            Displays initial CLI information (player stats, example move).

            Runs a game loop:
            Checks if the game is over.
            Displays whose turn it is.
            Shows legal moves.
            Prompts user input for a move.
            Validates move format and legality:
            If valid: applies the move and updates the board display.
            If invalid: prints an error and asks again.
            When the game ends, prints "Game over" and displays the final result.

            Inputs:
            None directly (but user input is collected during the game loop).

            Outputs:
            Prints board, game status, and messages to the terminal.
            Ends when the game concludes.

file_name: github_integration.py
    functions:
        1. getGameState()
            Purpose:
            Loads and returns the current game state from local storage.

            Inputs:
            None

            Behavior:
            Calls DP.load_game_state() (from your data_persistence module).
            However, right now: ⚠️ This function is incomplete.
            It loads the data but doesn’t return it.
            It should probably return data so that it can be used later.

            Current Output:
            Nothing (needs return data).

            Suggested Improvement:
            def getGameState():
                data = DP.load_game_state()
                return data

        2. commit_game_state_to_github
            Purpose:
            Commits the local game state file to a specific branch in a GitHub repository.

            Inputs:
            token (str): GitHub personal access token.
            repo_name (str): Format "username/repo".
            file_path (str): Local path to the game state file.
            commit_message (str, optional): Custom commit message.
            branch (str, optional): Target branch (default: "development").

            Behavior:
            Authentication:
            Uses Github(auth=Auth.Token(token)) (✅ good: avoids deprecated method).
            
            Access repository:
            Retrieves repository object using get_repo(repo_name).

            Read file content:
            Reads local game state file into file_content.

            Try to update the file in GitHub:
            Tries to get file contents from the given branch.

            If file exists:
            Calls update_file() to update the file with new content.
            Prints success message.
            
            If file doesn’t exist:
            Catches the exception.
            Creates the file in the repository using create_file().
            Prints creation success message.

            Outputs:
            Prints status messages to terminal: whether the file was created or updated.

file_name: main.py
    functions:
        main()
            Purpose:
            Determines how the program runs based on command-line arguments.

            Detailed Behavior:
            Startup Message:
            Prints "Starting the Chess CLI..."

            Load Game State from GitHub:
            Calls GHI.getGameState().
            ⚠️ Note: As we saw earlier, this currently doesn’t return data — probably needs improvement.

            Command-line Argument Handling:
            If no arguments are provided:
            Prints "Displaying the GUI" (CLI in this case).
            TODO: You wrote a note to add CLI logic here (Right now, it stops after the print).

            If arguments are provided:
            Checks the first argument (command).

            Commands:

            Command	Behavior
            vote	- Expects a second argument (the move).
            - Prints the move (currently placeholder).
            - TODO: You noted to implement the vote logic.

            stats	- Calls Tracker.test_participation_tracker() to show tracking info.

            help	- Prints all available commands. Helpful for users!

            test	- Runs a test suite:
            - Calls DP.test1(),
            - Calls Tracker.test_participation_tracker(),
            - Runs the main game loop with game.main().

            Unknown Command	- Prints "Unknown command" and displays help reminder.

            Execution:
            If the script is run directly, main() is executed.

file_name: scheduler.py
    functions: 
        1. get_current_branch()
            Purpose:
            Dynamically retrieves the current Git branch name (fallback to "development" if it fails).

            Process:
            Runs git branch --show-current using subprocess.
            Returns the branch name as a string, or "development" if the command fails.
            Improvement Tip: (Optional) You can cache this or log for visibility.

        2. scheduled_commit()
            Purpose:
            Job function that commits the game state to GitHub.

            Process:
            Prints timestamp for clarity.

            Calls github_integration.commit_game_state_to_github() with:
            GitHub token
            Repo name
            Game state file path
            Commit message
            Current branch name
            Prints error if something fails.

        3. start_scheduler()
            Purpose:
            Starts the APScheduler to run scheduled_commit() daily at the time specified in config.py.

            Process:
            Reads time from config file (expected format: "HH:MM").
            Adds the job to the background scheduler using cron trigger.
            Starts the scheduler.
            Keeps the script alive using while True: time.sleep(1) until interrupted.

            Bonus Improvement:
            You can extend this to run at intervals or add multiple jobs!
            Add logging for "next run time" for user clarity.

file_name: team_management.py
    functions:
        1. get_team_info()
            Purpose:
            Retrieve and display info about all current teams.
            Useful for CLI command like: python main.py teams or python main.py stats

            Input:
            Maybe none, if you’re loading from a game state file.
            Optionally: filter parameter (e.g., team ID or team name).

            Output:
            Dictionary or printed summary of:
            Team names/IDs
            Members
            Number of members

            Example Usage:
            teams = get_team_info()
            print(teams)

            Optional improvement:
            Format as a table for CLI!
            Support output as JSON for external tools.

        2. balance_teams()
            Purpose:
            Ensure teams are balanced (fair number of players).
            For example, if players join unevenly, redistribute them.

            Input:
            Current player list or game state data.

            Output:
            New team assignments or confirmation of balance.

            Steps:
            Count players in each team.
            If imbalance detected:
            Move players from larger team to smaller team.
            Update the game state.

        3. assign_team_id()
            Purpose:
            Assign a new player to a team when they join.
            Auto-assign based on team sizes (to maintain balance).

            Input:
            Player identifier (name, ID, etc.)

            Output:
            Team ID (int or string), updated game state.

            Example:
            team_id = assign_team_id(player_id="Player123")
            print(f"Player assigned to team {team_id}")

            Steps:
            Check which team has fewer players.
            Assign the new player to that team.
            Update and save game state.

        4. main()
            Purpose:
            Entry point for running team management directly.
            Can be for testing, or running balance manually.

file_name: Tracker.py
    functions:
        

                                                    